---
layout: post
title: 'The Love Hypothesis is dangerous.'
tags: [writing, blog, books, literature]
featured_image_thumbnail: assets/images/posts/blog/thelovehypothesis.jpeg
featured_image: assets/images/posts/blog/thelovehypothesis.jpeg
featured: false
---
<script>
  $(document).ready(function() {
  setTimeout(function() { $("#preloader").fadeOut(1500); }, 100)
});
</script>

I find it funny that my first book blog is about a book I hated. Actually, I firsth gave this book three stars on goodreads, but that was because I would never give a book a "bad" grade (unless it is *Atlas Shrugged* -- my friends and I love hating this book). I should probably mention that I rarely read books "for fun," meaning that I rarely read a book and never think about it deeply. This is possibly why I now hate the book -- I gave it *too much* thought, and it probably wasn't written with that intention. 

First of all, the book is about a PhD candidate, which is precisely the reason I decided to read it (how many books are about PhD students that are also women? Ten points to the idea!). She is even my age! This is also a romantic comedy book, which means there should be romance and comedy. Granted, it had both. I actually enjoyed the comedy part of the book -- yup, I chuckled a few times while reading it. However, the romance was so cringing because of the characters involved in the relationship -- a student and a professor. *Ewww!!!* The professor was basically an overbearing jackass who loved no one but himself (and the girl as it turns out). Meanwhile, the student (who was brilliant by the way!) willingly played into his hands because she was so in love. I always say that I love *love*, but this relationship -- a bossy mature man and a naive girl -- should NOT be the object of my affection. Especially if the bossy man is in a position of power. It's as if the author thinks this kind of behavior is normal or acceptable in the workplace. 

I was giving this book a benefit of the doubt though, because it is fiction at the end of the day. Only recently I have realized something else: just because it is a romantic comedy does not make it right. Maybe those types of stories are meant more for entertainment value than to offer any truth or positive message about relationships, but this is how we shape our minds -- through books (or Netflix shows lol). That's why I would call it dangerous. It is dangerous because the book is very popular (e.g. [it has 4.3/5 stars on goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56732449-the-love-hypothesis)), but it romanticizes wrong values. And it is also dangerous to assume that all women would act irrationally and be okay with it. I did not agree with any part of the book - especially the heroine's behavior toward the hero (like, it's not ok if a professor asks a student to fake a relationship. It is also considered as *harassment* to kiss a stranger without a consent -- do NOT romaticize that!).

The author does raise points about sexual harassment, bullying, and power grabs in academia. I feel this is important to discuss it even in a romantic comedy book. This is what I was hoping to see in the book actually -- more realistic depiction of a PhD life. Ali Hazelwood was a PhD student, so I was glad to see terms like *Title IX* in the first pages of the book, but this didn't go further than that.  

The other problem that I have is the portrayal of that man with power. The main hero of the story, the professor who falls in love with a student, is portrayed in a very cliché way. I felt like he was a bit of a cliché himself, with his quirky behavior and all. I call this type of character *Mr. Darcys*. Don't get me wrong, I love Jane Austen's writing and her creation of these characters was a masterpiece. Unfortunately, in today's society, the characters she created have been overused and are seen as very one-dimensional. Maybe that is why so many authors (and TV producers) choose to write their characters in similar ways? To cater to a certain audience - an audience who wants the same old thing they have been seeing over and over again. Or, they just think that this is what girls want -- a serious man who is only capable to open up to his girl. As a woman, I am just sick of seeing these stereotypes in movies/social media/books/online articles, and so on! Women are not robots that only like one type of a guy.